---
layout: post
title: GSoC 2019 - Week 4 - Phase-I Completion
comments: true
tags: [ gsoc, Sympy]
---

The fourth week of coding period has ended and now it's time for phase-I evaluations. Below, is a brief progress report of the project.

The tasks that were proposed in the proposal for phase-I consists of:
 - Implementation of Abelian Invariants
 - Implementation of Composition Series
 - Computation with Polycyclic groups

**Abelian Invariants**
Implemented a function to compute the abelian invariants for a given permutation or free group. These are given as a list of prime-powers and describe the stucture of `G/G'` as a direct product of cyclic groups of prime power order.

 - PR link [Added method to calculate Abelian Invariants](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/16670)

**Composition Series**
Implemented a function to compute the composition series. It provides a way to break up a group into simple pieces. Composition series of a group `G` is defined as the maximal subnormal series `G = H_0 > H_1 > H_2 \ldots > H_k = 1` where every factor group `H(i+1)/H(i)` is simple.

 - PR link [Added method for Composition Series computation](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/16881)

**Polycyclic Groups**
The work on polycyclic group is in progress. For now, collection algorithm has been implemented which needs to be tested and a lot of discussions were made on the polycyclic generating sequence and its presentation and may be in a week we'll be ready with the stucture of polycyclic groups and collection of words.

 - PR link [Added Polycyclic Group Class](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/16991)

* To follow the discussion on above topics and the further progress of the project one can check Gitter room [sympy/GroupTheory](https://gitter.im/sympy/GroupTheory) 
